# Types of Modulation
There are two main types of modulation that are applied to carrier waves: analog modulation and digital modulation. As one might expect, analog modulation encodes analog information onto a carrier wave by smoothly altering some quality of that wave; digital modulation encodes digital, bonary information onto the carrier wave by rapidly and discretely changing the state of the underlying wave.

AM radio is an example of analog modulation. The simplest analog AM transmitters simply take a raw voice input signal, like from a microphone component in a circuit, and use the amplitude of that signal to determine the amplitude of the carrier signal at all points in time. Thus the transmitted AM is then smoothly modulated.

[[Phase-Shift Keying#BPSK|BPSK]] is an example of digital modulation. Digital information is represented as binary bits, and like a square wave which rapidly moves between two distinct and steady states (e.g. 0V and 5V or -1V and 1V), a BPSK modulated carrier wave will shift in phase between some phase $\phi_{1}$ and some other phase, $\phi_{2}$, to which it is 180° opposed. This transition cannot happen slowly or smoothly, and in practice often happens at a rate much faster than the frequency of the carrier wave; a drawback of this fast state-switching behavior is the propagation of high-frequency harmonics, which are usually unwanted.

A distinction between analog and digital modulation is seen in naming conventions. For example, the well-known frequency modulation technique that powers FM radio is analog. The digital analogue (lol) of FM is [[Frequency-Shift Keying|FSK]], or frequency-shift keying.